Add search algorithm configuration documentation (#115)
NREL/OpenStudio-HPXML-Calibration: docs/search_config.md

- **Balance Exploration and Intensification:**
    - if the search space is complex, consider increasing the crossover and mutation probabilities to ensure thorough exploration and solution coverage.
    - Higher crossover and mutation probabilities (greater than 0.1 or 10%) can enhance the algorithm's ability to investigate new search spaces, while lower probabilities tend to concentrate the search on refining and intensifying existing solutions.
    - Higher crossover and mutation probabilities may result in longer search time.
- **Evaluating Results:** Experiment with different parameter settings and compare outcomes to achieve an optimal balance between solution quality and computational efficiency.
- **Tune Based on Constraints:** When computational resources are limited, smaller populations, fewer generations, and smaller crossover and mutation probabilities may still yield useful results. It’s often necessary to experiment with different values to find the optimal values for a particular problem.

## Value Choices

> These arrays contain the discrete options that the genetic algorithm will evaluate to calibrate the model. The values are multipliers of the element values in the hpxml model. 1 means the exact value that is in the original model. 0.1 means 1/10th of the original value. 10 means 10x the original value. Each home should have a custom config file for what is known about that home in particular. For instance, if a blower door test was completed on a home, you could probably have very small or no range for the air leakage choices in that home. We think a safe principle is to start with narrow ranges and few options the first time you attempt calibration of a home.

Reviewer: Just some wordsmithing suggestions:
```suggestion
These arrays contain the discrete options that the genetic algorithm will evaluate to calibrate the model. The values are multipliers (or temperature offsets) applied to elements in the HPXML model. For multipliers, 1 means no change, 0.1 means 1/10th of the original value, and 10 means 10x the original value. For temperature offsets, 0 means no change, -2 means a decrease of 2 deg-F, and 2 means an increase of 2 deg-F. Each home should have a custom config file for what is known about that home in particular. For instance, if a blower door test was completed on a home, you could use a very small range (to account for uncertainty in the infiltration algorithm) or no range for the air leakage choices in that home. We think a safe principle is to start with narrow ranges and few options the first time you attempt calibration of a home, and then subsequently expand the options/ranges if the calibration is not successful.
```

- Numbers farther away from 1 signify more uncertainty in the original model.
    - If those settings aren't able to generate a model that meets the acceptance criteria, try expanding the range.
        - Instead of `[0.5, 1, 2]`, consider `[0.25, 1, 4]`
- More values inside the array give the genetic algorithm more granularity to find a solution.
    - If the quality of the output isn't very good, more granularity could help.
        - Instead of `[0.5, 1, 2]`, consider `[0.5, 0.75, 1, 1.5, 2]`

### The choices in the config file adjust the following hpxml values

> If your model doesn't contain any of them, that field is ignored.

Reviewer: Is that right? I thought it will use the choices from the default config instead (which a user should _not_ rely on).

Reviewer 2: Perhaps I didn't word this very well. I mean that if the hpxml model doesn't have, for instance, a permanent spa, then values in the `misc_load_multiplier_choices` array won't create a new one, nor will they cause the modification of the model to fail.

It is true that if a custom config file (for a specific home) does not contain any given field (in the whole config file, not just the value choices), it will take the value of the default config file.

# Search Algorithm Configuration

The calibration process utilizes a genetic algorithm. The configuration file includes parameters that allow users to tune the genetic algorithm for optimal performance.

- **population_size**: Defines the number of candidate solutions in each generation. A larger population increases diversity and enhances the search, but require more computational resources. Very small populations may lead to premature convergence.

> - **generations**: Specifies the maximum number of iterations the algorithm can perform. Increasing this value allows more opportunities for improvement, but leads to longer runtimes. The calibration process will terminate early if an optimal solution is found before reaching this limit.

Reviewer 2: I think we should not use the word `optimal`, and instead say something like: "if a solution that meets the user's criteria is found..."

Reviewer: "Very small populations may lead to premature convergence." I don't understand this phrasing. Isn't premature convergence a good thing? You want it to converge as quickly as possible. I am probably misunderstanding something here.

- **mutation_probability**: Determines the likelihood of random changes being introduced in offspring. Higher mutation rates encourage exploration of new solutions but may destabilize good candidates.
- **crossover_probability**: Specifies the probability that two parent solutions will combine to produce a child. Higher crossover rates encourage the exploitation of good solutions; however, excessive rates may reduce overall diversity.

## Optimizing Parameters: Practical Guidance

- **Testing with Small Values:** Employ reduced population sizes and fewer generations during initial testing phases to quickly validate code and workflow.

> - **Calibration with Larger Values:** For full-scale calibration, increase both population_size and generations to achieve a more comprehensive search. Studies recommend population sizes between 30–100 and similar ranges for generations, particularly for building energy applications.

Reviewer 2: I like that you recommend specific ranges here. Can we do that for more of the parameters?

Can we either link to the studies that support your statement, or instead of `Studies` say `We`?

Reviewer: Should we mention that there is a relationship between the population_size/generations inputs and the number/granularity of calibration adjustment knobs? If you don't have many knobs available, I assume a large population_size or number of generations will be nonsensical.

Author: > I like that you recommend specific ranges here. Can we do that for more of the parameters?
> 
> Can we either link to the studies that support your statement, or instead of `Studies` say `We`?

Actually, while I do have papers that I support this recommendation, the ranges they used were specific to their studies. They are not claiming that these values must be used. That’s why I think phrasing it as “we recommend” makes more sense. The same applies to other parameters as well. Rather than giving very specific ranges, I describe them simply as high/low for this reason. Also, since it’s often necessary to experiment with different values to find the optimal settings for a particular problem, providing too definite a range could be risky.

- **Balance Exploration and Intensification:**
    - if the search space is complex, consider increasing the crossover and mutation probabilities to ensure thorough exploration and solution coverage.
    - Higher crossover and mutation probabilities can enhance the algorithm's ability to investigate new search spaces, while lower probabilities tend to concentrate the search on refining and intensifying existing solutions.
    - Higher crossover and mutation probabilities may result in longer search time.
- **Evaluating Results:** Experiment with different parameter settings and compare outcomes to achieve an optimal balance between solution quality and computational efficiency.

> - **Tune Based on Constraints:** When computational resources are limited, smaller populations, fewer generations, and smaller crossover and mutation probabilities may still yield useful results. It’s often necessary to experiment with different values to find the optimal values for a particular problem.

Reviewer 2: I think we should add something about the choices that the GA is trying. Can you add a bullet describing those arrays?

Reviewer 2: I'll make an attempt at that, @shorowit
